Маленький проект, статистическая модель посленулевого общества из книги Нил Стивенсон "Семиевие". Расчет вероятности сохранения 7ми независимых рас за 5000 лет после ноля.

Niel Stephenson "Seveneve" model for post-nul society. I wondered if it is statistically possible for intependent races to be preseved after 5000 years.
We start witn N_i purebloods for each race and then new generation start to be generated. Every person has 2*23 chromosomes. Every chromosome is a 1-length vector in 7-space. I.e. if vector of chromosome is aligned with Aivian axis, the chromosome has 100% avian markers and no other markers. And so on. When person is concieved, random chromosome is taken form each pair of each parent, some crossing-over happenes, and child gets a chromosome. Gender is determined by what chromosome was randomly selected for pair 0, which is considered XY pair and does not undergoes crossing-over. That allows calculate overall racial 7-vector of a person (sum chromosome as vectors, then normalize) and also racial purity of a person. Racial purity = 1.0 means 7-vector is aligned with an axis (pureblood), 0.0 means 7-vector is a center axis of a hypercone, drawn through racial axes (person is equal parts of 7 races).
The sossciety pressure is modeled with an idea that there is social pressure global coefficient that acts against interracial coupling. The partner for concieving is determined by a weighted random, where weight for a potential partner calculated as product of racial similarity between persons (dot product of their racial vectors), global racial importance parameter, and racial purity of each person. The idea for last parameter is that more racially pure person is, more importance they assign to racial similarity when choosing partner. Hence mixed heritage people do not care of race of partner, but there is also a global paramter of how exactly likely interracial pairs of purebloods are.
In the end we get stats by deciles of racial purity in the overall popolation. 
Interface is in Russian.
